Add Auth API to the Neon Auth docs (#2976)
neondatabase/website: content/docs/guides/neon-auth-api.md

---
title: Manage Neon Auth using the API
enableTableOfContents: true
---

Learn how to manage your Neon Auth integration using the Neon API. Create a new integration, add users, and claim ownership of your Neon-managed auth project to your auth provider.

## Prerequisites

- A Neon API key (see [Create an API Key](/docs/manage/api-keys#create-an-organization-api-key))
- A Neon project

## Common parameters

Several endpoints require these parameters:

- `project_id`: Your Neon project ID. You can find it in the Neon Console on the **Settings** page, or use the [List Projects endpoint](https://api-docs.neon.tech/reference/listprojects).
- `auth_provider`: The authentication provider you're using. Currently supported providers:
  - `stack`: Stack Auth integration

## Create integration

> Creates a Neon-managed authentication project for your database (currently supporting Stack Auth). This endpoint performs the same action as using Quick Start in the Console, automatically provisioning and configuring a new auth provider project that Neon manages for you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Creates a Neon-managed authentication project for your database (currently supporting Stack Auth). This endpoint performs the same action as following the Auth **Setup instructions** in the Console, automatically provisioning and configuring a new auth provider project that Neon manages for you.
```

Author: @mrl5 can you confirm that the create endpoint creates a neon-managed stack auth project only? i.e., there is no parameter to create a stack auth owned project out of the gate?

in other words, the API create = using the quickstart option from the console

Reviewer 2: that's right :)

Author: Revised to:

`Creates a Neon-managed authentication project for your database (currently supporting Stack Auth). This endpoint performs the same action as using the **Quick start** option from the **Auth** page in the Neon Console, automatically provisioning and configuring a new auth provider project that Neon manages for you.
`

<Admonition type="note">
To create an integration, you'll need:
- Your main branch ID. Get it from the Neon Console on the **Branches** page, or use the [List Branches endpoint](https://api-docs.neon.tech/reference/listprojectbranches) (look for `"default": true`)

> - Your database name and role name. Get them from the **Connect** tab in the Neon Console, or use the [List Databases endpoint](https://api-docs.neon.tech/reference/listprojectbranches)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Your database name and role name. Get them by clicking on the **Connect** button on your **Project Dashboard** in the Neon Console, or use the [List Databases endpoint](https://api-docs.neon.tech/reference/listprojectbranches)
```

     --header 'authorization: Bearer $NEON_API_KEY' | jq
```

Example response:

```json shouldWrap
{
  "data": [
    {
      "auth_provider": "stack",
      "auth_provider_project_id": "proj-example-123",
      "branch_id": "br-example-123",
      "db_name": "neondb",
      "created_at": "2024-03-19T12:00:00Z",
      "owned_by": "neon",
      "jwks_url": "https://api.stack-auth.com/api/v1/projects/proj-example-123/.well-known/jwks.json"
    }
  ]
}
```

[Try in API Reference ↗](https://api-docs.neon.tech/reference/listProjectIdentityIntegrations)

## Create users

Creates a new user in your auth provider's system.

Required parameters:

- `project_id`: Your Neon project ID
- `auth_provider`: The authentication provider (currently `"stack"`)
- `email`: User's email address
- `password`: User's password

```bash shouldWrap
curl --request POST \
     --url 'https://console.neon.tech/api/v2/projects/auth/user' \
     --header 'authorization: Bearer $NEON_API_KEY' \
     --header 'content-type: application/json' \
     --data '{
       "project_id": "project-id",
       "auth_provider": "stack",
       "email": "user@example.com",

>        "password": "secure-password"

Reviewer 2: this endpoint doesn't support such parameter
